
=head1 NAME

donkeypunch - A C<systemd> service ssh tunneling.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This service will keep a port on some local host forwarded to
some remote host.  Coupled with SSH2's ability to allow other
hosts to connect to forwarded ports this can effectively get
around firewalls and other things in a much lighter manor than
a full VPN setup.

Each connection can be configured independently using C<systemd>'s
intrinsic ability for multi-configuration services.  Connections
should be installed to C</etc/default> (by default) and have the
form C<donkeypunch@hostname>.  You can use any identifier you
want, but for most setups hostname is unique enough.

The example configuration (C<example.conf>) forwards the SSH
port of C<localhost> to some remote server where it will be
accessible on port C<10022> by default.  The only parameters
that are required on the default example are C<_USR> and C<_GWA>.
The C<_USR> parameter will configure the username for SSH
connections, the C<_GWA> parameter will configure the remote
servers hostname / IP address.

Once you have those configured you will need to setup the user
as a B<RESTRICTED ACCOUNT> on the remote server -- because you will
need to setup an unencrypted key for this user to forward ports and
reconnect without intervention from you.  For tips about setting up
a restricted port forwarding account on linux please consult the
interwebz.  Once you have the account setup and generated an
unencrypted keypair save, the private key on the local host as
C</etc/ssh/relay/relay.id.KEY_TYPE> and set the parameter in the
configuration.  The public key should be saved in on the remote
server in the appropriate C<authorized_keys> file.

For security donkeypunch by default needs the SSH Known Hosts
file to be properly setup for the server you are attempting
to connect to.  The easiest way to get this is to attempt
a connection to the remote server then copy the Known Hosts
file to C</etc/ssh/relay/known_hosts>.  This prevents someone
from attempting to man-in-the-middle as if the remote host
changes donkeypunch will not allow connection.

=head1 OPTIONS

Now for a full description of the configuration options found
in a donkeypunch configuration file.

=over 12

=item C<_NAM>

A unique name for this configuration.  This will help you track
it in your system's C<syslog> or equivalent as all entries will
reference this unique name.  A good practice is to make this the
same as the C<donkeypunch@UNIQUE_IDENTIFIER> configuration file.

=item C<_STO>

Where will the Known Hosts and Private Key be stored?  This
does not have to be used if they will be stored in different
locations.

=item C<_KNW>

Where will the Known Hosts file be stored?  By default is based
off of C<_STO>, but does not have to be.  Must be readable by
C<systemd> if that does not run as C<root>.

=item C<_SID>

Where will the Private Key be stored?  By default is based off
of C<_STO>, but does not have to be.  This must be unencrypted
as you will not be able to decrypt it when the connection is
started.  Must be readable by C<systemd> if that does not run
as C<root>.

=item C<_USR>

The username that SSH should use when connecting to the remote
server.  This should be a B<RESTRICTED> account on the remote
server to prevent many security vulnerabilities.

=item C<_GWA>

The remote server that donkeypunch should connect to.  This can
be an IP address or a hostname that is resolvable by C<systemd>.

=item C<_GPW>

The remote server's SSH port.  Default is 22.  Match it to your
remote server's SSH configuration.

=item C<_GTO>

The timeout for the SSH connection to the remote server.  Default
is 60 seconds, which is a happy medium.  The lowest recommended
would be 30 seconds or so.

=item C<_GFW>

The destination for the forwarded port on the remote server.  This
is the port you will use to connect through the remote server to
your local host running C<donkeypunch> (or whatever C<donkeypunch>
is forwarding).

=item C<_FWA>

The hostname or IP address of what you want to forward.  By default
this is localhost, it could be anything routable on your local host's
network.

=item C<_FWP>

The port you want to forward out to the remote server.  By default
this is set to forward the localhost's default SSH port out to
the remote host.

=back

=head1 ADVANCED OPTIONS

After the above options comes the extended SSH options that get
passed directly to the SSH command.  If you're feeling adventurous
you can muck around with C<_OPT>.  Each option should go on a newline,
they get smushed by the C<sed> call at the very end -- do not touch
that.

=over 12

=item C<ExitOnForwardFailure>

This is really the core of why this can constantly keep a tunnel
open.  Without this line, donkeypunch would be able to connect
B<without> opening a tunnel...what would be the point.

=item C<UserKnownHostsFile>

This helps prevent someone bamboozling you with a bad host.

=item C<ServerAliveInterval>

How often SSH will check before disconnecting from a
non-connected host.  Then C<donkeypunch> will wait a max
of 45 seconds before trying to connect again.

=item C<nxNT>

These are for optimal tunnel connecting, probably don't
change them, but I'm not your boss.

=item C<More and MORE!>

You can use any long-form SSH option in this file.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Justin Lee - L<https://taiz.me>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ssh>, L<systemd>

=cut

